PgToolkit - tools for PostgreSQL maintenance and monitoring

Currently the package contains the only tool pgcompact, we are
planning to add much more in the future. Stay tuned.

pgcompact

Tables and indexes bloat removing tool.

Features:

- requires no dependencies except Perl >=5.8.8, so it can just be
  copied to server and run;
- works with DBD::Pg, DBD::PgPP or even using psql if there are no
  former ones, detects and chose the best option automatically;
- can process specified tables, schemes, databases or the whole
  cluster;
- has an ability to exclude tables, schemes or databases from
  processing;
- bloat percentage analysis and processing of those tables that need
  it only, we recommend to install pgstattuple for more precise
  estimations;
- indexes bloat analysis and non blocking reindex of those that need
  it;
- analysis and rebuilding of bloated unique constraints and primary
  keys where possible;
- incremental processing, in other words one can stop the process and
  continue at any time later;
- dynamic adjustment to current load of database, to not affect its
  performance;
- instructs administrators, supplying them with ready to use DDL, to
  manually rebuild database objects which can not be rebuilt
  automatically.

Examples:

  $ pgcompact --man # shows extended help
  $ pgcompact --all --reindex --verbose info 
  $ pgcompact --dbname billing --exclude-schema pgq --reindex

The easiest way to deploy the toolkit is to get the latest version of
the autonomous scripts archive pgtoolkit-vX-fatpack.tar.gz from the
project page http://code.google.com/. These scripts are packed with
all the required dependencies so you will need to have Perl installed
only. Just unpack it to your bin directory and enjoy.

Another way is to checkout the source code from the project's
repository:

  $ svn co http://pgtoolkit.googlecode.com/svn/tags/vX/ pgtoolkit

The work directory contains a fatpack directory. It also houses the
autonomous scripts so you can use them straight away. If you want to
use non-autonomous versions of these scripts you will find them in the
bin directory. To make them work the PERL5LIB environment variable
must be set to the lib directory.

Email us if have any questions:

- Sergey Konoplev mailto:gray.ru@gmail.com;
- Maxim Boguk mailto:maxim.boguk@gmail.com.

Thank you for contribution:

- PostgreSQL-Consulting.com mailto:support@postgresql-consulting.com
  for a huge amount of ideas and lots of testing;
- Lonni Friedman for your ideas;
- Rural Hunter  for ideas and testing.

The list of changes can be found in the file CHANGES. PgToolkit is
released under the PostgreSQL License, read the COPYRIGHT file for
additional information.
